feat: Dashboard v2 product docs (#3007)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/dashboards/index.mdx

---
title: Dashboards
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/visibility/
  - /workflow/dashboards/
  - /product/error-monitoring/dashboards/

> description: "Sentry's Dashboards help you gain detailed perspectives of your application's health by providing filtering tools to navigate your issues across multiple projects in a single view."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Sentry's Dashboards provide a single view of your application's health, including the ability to navigate issues across multiple projects."
```

Reviewer 2: Should this be `issues and performance` instead of only issues?

Author: I've updated this to become:

> Dashboards provide a single view of your application's health, including the ability to navigate issues and performance across multiple projects.

---

> Dashboards help you gain detailed perspectives of your application's health by providing visibility to your errors and transactions across multiple projects in a single view.

Reviewer: see previous edit.

> Dashboards are comprised of one or more dashboard widgets. Each widget is a visualization of one or more [Discover queries](/product/discover-queries/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets. Each of these widgets is a visualization of one or more [Discover queries](/product/discover-queries/).
```

## Overall View of Application

> ![Widgets visualizing events, errors by country, affected users, and handled vs unhandled issues.](dashboard.png)
> 
> When visiting Dashboards for the first time, your organization is provided a set of pre-built widgets. You may edit them to suit your organization's needs.

Reviewer: Screenshots follow the text. Also, can you clarify, "your organization is provided" is slightly confusing - do we mean that a member of each organization can customize, or is the customization for the organization and every member then adopts?
```suggestion
When visiting Dashboards for the first time, your organization is provided a set of pre-built widgets. You may edit them to suit your organization's needs.

![Widgets visualizing events, errors by country, affected users, and handled vs unhandled issues.](dashboard.png)
```

Author: Dashboards are unique for every organization. The Dashboards are shared across users of that organization.

Author: I've added a copy here to clarify this. This first section will be later consolidated.

## Customizing widgets

<Alert title="Note" level="info">

>   Available if your organization is on either the Business plan or the Trial plan.

Reviewer: We likely need to clarify this, as we have multiple flavors of business plan @jeremybourque. 
```suggestion
  Available if your organization is on either the Business plan or the Trial plan.
```

</Alert>

![Widget builder.](widget_builder.png)

You can build or edit widgets by:

1. Clicking on "Edit Dashboard" button on the top right hand corner.

> 2. Either click on the pencil icon to edit a widget, or clicking on the widget panel with the plus icon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Either click on the pencil icon to edit an existing widget, or clicking on the widget panel with the plus icon to create a new widget.
```

This will open up the widget builder (see screenshot above).

A widget consists of the following components:

- Widget name

> - Visualization types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Visualization type
```

> ![Widget builder.](widget_builder.png)
> 
> You can build or edit widgets by:
> 
> 1. Clicking on "Edit Dashboard" button on the top right hand corner.
> 2. Either click on the pencil icon to edit a widget, or clicking on the widget panel with the plus icon.
> 
> This will open up the widget builder (see screenshot above).
> 
> A widget consists of the following components:
> 
> - Widget name
> - Visualization types
> - One or more Discover queries
>   - Search conditions
>   - Fields, tags, or functions
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build or edit widgets by:

1. Clicking the "Edit Dashboard" button at the top right hand corner.
2. Clicking the pencil icon to edit a widget
3. Clicking the widget panel with the plus icon

This will open up the widget builder:
![Widget builder.](widget_builder.png)

A widget consists of the following components:

- Name
- Visualization types
- One or more Discover queries
  - Search conditions
  - Fields, tags, or functions

```

> ### Visualization types

Reviewer: title case
```suggestion
### Visualization Types
```

> **Note:** Only functions are available as choices for:

Reviewer: This is a bit unclear. Do we mean that only one of the following charts is available as a visualization type?

Author: This is referring to the available type of choices as outlined in magenta here:

<img width="655" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-08 at 6 47 35 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/139499/107295816-29fe9980-6a3e-11eb-91ec-77a187e6a5c6.png">

The available type of choices are: fields, tags, measurements, and functions.

I'll add a copy to indicate this.

- Area chart
- Bar chart
- Line chart
- World Map
- Big Number

#### Area, Bar, and Line Charts

> Displays functions in various timeseries chart types. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Displays function result as a timeseries. 
```
Not sure if this is better? 🤷

#### Table Results

> Display top 5 row results of a [Discover query](/product/discover-queries/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display top five results of a [Discover query](/product/discover-queries/).
```

#### World Map

Events are queried using the given function and `geo.country_code`. The results are overlaid on the world map.

#### Big Number 

> Displays the current value of a single function.

Reviewer: Can we clarify which function? Is it based on the selection above?
```suggestion
Displays the current value of a single function.
```

Author: Only one function can be chosen for a big number widget.

---
title: Dashboards
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/visibility/
  - /workflow/dashboards/
  - /product/error-monitoring/dashboards/
description: "Sentry's Dashboards provide a single view of your application's health, including the ability to navigate issues and performance across multiple projects."
---

<Alert title="Note" level="info">

>   Dashboards is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Dashboards are only available if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.
```

</Alert>

Dashboards provide the ability to build custom views of your application's health, including the ability to navigate issues and performance across multiple projects.

> Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes of one or more [Discover queries](/product/discover-queries/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes one or more [Discover queries](/product/discover-queries/).
```

![Widgets visualizing events, errors by country, affected users, and handled vs unhandled issues.](dashboard.png)

## Customizing Dashboards

<Alert title="Note" level="info">
  Editing Dashboards is only available if your organization is on either the Business plan or the Trial plan.
</Alert>

You can build a new Dashboard or Edit an existing Dashboard by clicking on either the "Create Dashboard" or the "Edit Dashboard" buttons on the top right-hand corner.

Next, you can build or edit widgets by:

- Click on the pencil icon to edit an existing widget.
- Click on the widget panel with the plus icon to create a new widget.

This will open up the widget builder:
![Widget builder.](widget_builder.png)

A widget is composed of the following components:

- Name of the widget
- Visualization Type
- One or more Discover queries with:
  - Search conditions
  - One or more fields, tags, measurements, or functions

### Visualization Types

- Area chart
- Bar chart
- Line chart
- World map
- Big number
- Table results

#### Area, Bar, and Line Charts

These visualizations allow you to plot one or more aggregate functions as

> a timeseries. Each chart type allows you to solve different problems:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a time series. Each chart type allows you to solve different problems:
```

- Bar charts will group results by day, making them good for daily rollups or
  as 'big picture' summaries. An example would be 'count of errors per day'.
- Area charts are ideal for showing results that cumulative or where you want to
  show a breakdown. An example would be 'count of errors for each major browser'.

> - Line charts are a general purpose visualization. Be mindful to ensure that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Line charts are a general-purpose visualization. Be mindful to ensure that
```

  all Y-Axis functions are of the same type. Mixing counts and durations will
  yield results that are not useful.

#### Table Results

Display top five results of a [Discover query](/product/discover-queries/). This
visualization is well suited to showing key fields and related aggregates. For
example 'duration percentiles for the most frequently visited transaction
names'.

#### World Map

Events are queried using the given function and `geo.country_code`. The results are plotted as a density value

> on a world map. An example use would be 'in which countries are users experiencing the most errors'.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
on a world map. Example use would be 'in which countries are users experiencing the most errors'.
```

You can zoom the map using the mouse wheel, or pan the map by click and drag the map around.

#### Big Number

Displays the current value of a single function. This visualization is well

> suited for high level aggregates. An example use would be 'p95 of all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
suited for high-level aggregates. Example use would be 'p95 of all
```

transactions'.

## Filter by Global Selection Header

> Once you've created a dashboards, you can specify which projects, environments,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you've created a dashboard, you can specify which projects, environments,
```

and date range you want to zoom in on at the top of the page. This can also be

> found in other parts of Sentry as a top level filter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
found in other parts of Sentry as a top-level filter.
```

## Filter by Interactive Graph

> Timeseries visualizations have an interactive graph that allows you to zoom in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Time Series visualizations have an interactive graph that allows you to zoom in.
```
